less than a couple of days after the
tragic most recent school shooting in
Florida the FBI finds itself being
targeted
after revealed today that it failed to
follow up on calls warning the agency of
the parkland shooter the agency said
proper protocols were not followed in
investigating him who authorities say
has confessed now to stalking the high
school's hallways cutting down students
and teachers and we have a statement
from the FBI director going in greater
detail saying I am committed to getting
to the bottom of what happened in this
particular matter as well as reviewing
our processes for responding to
information that we received from the
public it's up to all Americans to be
vigilant and when members of the public
contact us with concerns we must act
properly and quickly and so let's talk
about what actually happened law
enforcement officials said calls to the
tip line are handled at the FBI's call
center in West Virginia they get about
2100 per day a caller did call in about
this particular individual saying that
crews had recently purchased firearms
and had threatened a family member he
added that the caller knew Cruz's
address and said he had been posting
disturbing messages on social media
accounts and that he had a desire to
kill which is a whole lot of information
when you combine together that's really
scary and now under established
protocols the information provided by
the caller should have been assessed as
a potential threat to life the
information then should have been
forwarded the FBI Miami field office or
appropriate investigative steps would
have been taken they did not do that and
there will be consequences although we
can hold off for a second if you want to
respond to this initial information so
look there's gonna be a political angle
here in a second but in terms of what
the FBI did wrong I'm gonna have a
minority opinion here so it's very easy
to say oh my god in the act why didn't
they do something but it was a youtube
comment look down below if you're
watching on youtube tell me if you don't
find a death threat in there or someone
saying they're gonna kick someone's ass
or kill them or come for them etc and if
you don't find it on this video which
will be nearly miraculous go find any
other video oh that we do anyone does if
we reported every person who sounded
dangerous equal way same exact way I'm
gonna be a shooter I'm gonna come get
you guys with guns yada yada if we
report each one to the FBI
the FBI would do nothing else but track
the people that are in our youtube
comment section so it's a little Monday
Morning Quarterback here I sometimes
wear the threats are incredibly specific
and repeated I feel like the FBI still
feels overwhelmed and does not give a
proper response that's my take on it but
this was one guy in a youtube comment
section I if an FBI chased every one of
those down I'm like I said I don't think
they'd do anything but that so I I agree
with you and this to me may be just me
but this reads as one of these the
Republicans are getting ready to set up
a straw man so they could avoid the real
conversation and I think it's
disheartening and I think it's excuse my
language but this is the internet it's
bullshit um because I grew up literally
a janked about 20 miles from the school
I've debated at this school and as I
watched um on Wednesday night as they
showed the aerial views I could remember
myself being a sophomore in high school
sitting in that courtyard and to watch
these Republicans bob and weave
and Bob and we even tried to find all
these different reasons as to what went
wrong here when the real thing that went
wrong in this case and everybody knows
it you talk to people in Parkland you
see the interviews from these students
you see the interviews on these parents
here's what went wrong it's pretty
simple America he was 18 years old he
couldn't buy a beer he couldn't buy a
pint of vodka he couldn't buy whiskey
but he was able to buy a military grade
weapon an ar-15 and multiple magazines
and he was able to camouflage himself as
a student walk into that school pull the
fire alarm and then kill 17 innocent
people the problem is not the FBI the
problem is not oh we didn't get it soon
enough the tips were bad the problem was
is this man was armed with a military
grade weapon and Republicans will
continue to conjure up different Bible
scriptures and they will talk about
thoughts and prayers but thoughts and
prayers does not bring back a 14 year
old little girl who had the world ahead
of her and the world in front of her to
account to accomplish into a concur and
I think that is what's so upsetting and
that's why these parents if you look at
these interviews these parents are but
this is
and and and I gotta say this I think
it's really time that every American
wake up and there's there was a video
done where now this went to when they
started talking to us names of Congress
what do you have to say what are you
gonna do and they're like oh well I
don't I don't want to talk I don't want
to talk because the NRA has a
stranglehold on our elected leaders in
the state houses and in Congress and
everybody is so afraid of Wayne LaPierre
and that bill building in Fairfax County
that they're unwilling to protect our
children and so now they're gonna blame
this on Christopher ray and the FBI and
they're gonna find some way to connect
it back to Russia and connect it back to
Comey so Trump could go back to his old
narrative and once again we're missing
the argument the argument is this we are
12 20 some of 30 some six years of my
days to the new year and we've had 18
school shootings our kids are not safe
schools should be safe and welcoming
places for children and this is not true
why it's not true because too many
people have guns and it's too easy to
get you can get an ar-15 in Florida in
about 38 minutes yeah period so I'm
gonna go to graphic 30 here in a second
but now let's talk about the the
political part of this because then Rick
Scott the governor of Florida and Marco
Rubio both come out they say they're
shocked and chagrined at the FBI
yeah we have yes so here I'll read you
want to rick scott's quotes the FBI's
failure to take action against the
killer is unacceptable 17 innocent
people are dead and enology a mistake
isn't going to cut it we constantly
promote see something say something and
a courageous person did that just that
to the FBI and the FBI fail tag see
something say something is an incredibly
important tool and people must have
confidence in the follow-through from
their law enforcement the FBI director
needs to resign yeah so now let me
explain the trifecta there for the paula
for republicans and it might be even
more than so number one great I get to
deflect from guns it's not guns it's if
you had just found that one YouTube
comment and done something about it or
this all would have been taken care of
number two I wanted FBI director fired
because he's allowing an investigation
of Donald Trump perfect yes
now what a what a gift to me I get to
avoid talking about the real problem and
I get to get rid of what someone I
perceived
be a political enemy so I could help the
president obstruct justice and then
number three is the constant reference
to see something say something why look
for people who aren't who are different
than your own right and and that is
mainly used it is incredibly ineffective
so they have that program in the
tri-state area up in New York New Jersey
etc the overwhelming majority of the
calls are totally useless and waste a
tremendous amount of police time to
chase after that guy looked Arab that
guy looked dark that guy looked
suspicious that student had a backpack
it's a total waste of time right and but
it allows the Republicans that deflect
and get you to start questioning one
another oh and it allows for demagoguing
now by the way the guy it appears is a
white nationalist and he was wearing a
mag I had in one of the pictures and
bragged about being a right winger so
every time I see someone in a maggot
should I say something every time I see
a right winger should I report it to the
FBI a right winger with a gun okay let's
be more specific right that's all right
with okay great but can I report a
hundred and twenty million people right
how useless is see something say
something
so they hit a trifecta with it and the
mistake that Christopher read did in
this case and Christopher raised a
Republican yeah they're all over there
lookin for God's sake and and I'm sure
that if Christopher ray and I discuss
policy we would disagree on what 80 90
percent of things right so I'm not a fan
of Christopher rate I wouldn't have a
pointed Christopher ray but Christopher
ray here did what an FBI director should
do took accountability and I think he
took too much accountability but that's
okay good
I liked it he he's my they represent us
he's our FBI director I'm glad that he
took accountability but in politics
major mistake the Trump team and the
Republicans never take accountability
and they go what we denied it we
strongly denied it yeah and the other
side and decent honest people take
accountability they go yeah let you see
you admitted it that's it we got to fire
you and that's what's happening here
yeah when when we saw that you know the
see I had not followed the protocol this
morning at the production meeting we
were like I felt like okay I I'm putting
a tough position because obviously I
want to talk about this because they
theoretically could have stopped the guy
now I think when you're getting
literally thousands of tips every single
day it is very difficult
I mean sometimes there's other evidence
like the fact that he'd recently
purchased a firearm something like that
that can make it a little bit easier but
it's still tough but I also knew that
this would be used for the two-pronged
distraction tactics that we've been
talking about they want you to be
focused solely on protecting the last
possible shield against the mass
shooting
let's not actually talk about any of the
root causes the structure that makes it
possible let's talk about you did they
get their medication on that particular
day did someone pursue a phone call
let's not talk about the fact that they
can literally reach out and grab a
firearm because they're all around us
and so it's distraction and then of
course we were talking about the meeting
they're going to use this try to
describe the FBI I didn't know how
specific and target it would be that
they would literally call and in the
step down that day but we knew it was
coming and they wasted no time so just
one more thing that I - to Richard's
earlier point it's the guns it's they
are 15 s etc when you look at a scale of
shoot mass shootings in the world
compared to the number of guns we stand
alone so we're in the upper right corner
all by ourselves we have 270 million
guns in the country and we have 90 mass
shooters from 1966 to 2012 now that is a
very very conservative count the reality
is it is now especially since 2012 way
higher okay now if you look at the other
countries they have a low amount of guns
and they have a low amount of mass
shooters and it's not close they're all
huddled in the lower left corner we're
in the upper right corner
it's the guns stupid I think you're
absolutely right and I think what makes
this even more sad is that this is part
this is all part of this sort of they
love to play I think I my word of the
day a straw man because you would hear
them they when they go on about ms-13
and all these illegals are killing
everybody Oh Kate Steinle
and then you look at it majority of the
mass shootings in this country are white
supremacists right white supremacist
white nationalists Trump supporters
go in and create absolute mass havoc and
that's exactly what they did to parkland
and and it's like for me it just hit way
too close to home cuz you never like you
know when it happened in Sandy Hook and
I'm like this is awful this is really
sad but you never think is gonna happen
in your community and to know that this
happen my my mom called me she was like
I'm so happy that you neither you or
your brother are in public school
anymore and I could vision my mother
being one of those parents and then you
ask yourself the question what what is
it going to take for these members of
Congress and for these elected leaders
to say hold on we've got to get these
guns out of these people's hands I mean
and that's now I'm not it I'm one of
those people my brother's a gun owner
and my father's a gun owner I don't have
a problem with guns I just have a
problem with military-grade weapons in
the United States of America where we're
not at war what you just watched was one
of the videos that we do today but we
actually do a whole two-hour show every
single day it's a podcast you could
watch it a video or listen to it as
audio you can download it you can stream
it you can get a completely ad free if
you could become a member of the Young
Turks TYT Network comm /join